Welcome back.
I wanted to answer this question that I get a lot of even from professional developers that have been
in the field for years.
So I want to tackle this question really quickly right now.
Why are there so many programming languages.
Why can we just have one language that does everything and everybody's happy and we don't have to worry
about learning so many programming languages.
And here's the thing in your career you don't need to know five 10 eight languages now you can be a
really successful developer programmer with just want language just finding that speciality of yours
and programming languages like Python Java and JavaScript offer a lot of opportunities where you don't
need to learn another language.
But why are there so many languages.
If we go to Wikipedia These are the list of programming languages.
And if you're looking through here you should be intimidated because there's no way in your lifetime
you're going to learn all of these and while you won't most likely you're going to learn one two maybe
three languages in your entire lifespan or career as a programmer and different programming languages
are good for different things.
Just like we have different tools to let's say build a house.
You can't just build a house with a hammer you need different tools that are good at different things
to assemble what you want.
So it's impossible to build one ultimate language when we have so many applications so many mobile phones
so many computers so many devices like cameras.
So you have low level languages that we've talked about like assembly code or C and then we have higher
level languages like Python and JavaScript.
Now here's the thing python is usually slower than languages like C++ or C sharp or even Java and we
don't need to get into technical details here but I do want to tell you about a tradeoff.
You see you don't really want to write Python code for low level systems and hardware interactions.
If you're taking this course while you're probably not even interested in that field you see Python
although slower than some languages is good at one thing and does this really really well.
That is developer productivity because python is so easy to learn or at least is very similar to the
English language.
It's become really really popular for developers to be productive and write code really really fast
and less lines than something like C so A print Hello World for example in Python would take while just
one line but all languages have their different strength.
For example if you want to build an app on Android or an OS device.
Well you're not really going to use Python but if you want to do machine learning maybe you want to
build a web server maybe you want to do data visualizations build scripts that process thousands of
Excel files.
Well in that case you're going to use Python and we're going to cover what different things you can
do with Python and what Python is really really good at.
In this course as we explore different projects later on.
But keep that in mind.
The reason there's so many programming languages is that every programming language excels at some things
and while doesn't do so well at others it's all about tradeoff.
There is no ultimate language.
And if a programmer tells you you hate my language is the best language they're probably junior developers
that don't know what they're talking about.
Everything is a pro and con everything has a tradeoff.
And as programmers what really good senior programmers do is being able to detect what these pros and
cons are and what tool to use for a specific problem something that throughout this course I'm going
to try and teach.
I'll see you in the next one.
Bob.